Incident management runbook update (#4970)
cisagov/getgov: docs/operations/runbooks/downtime_incident_management.md

Reviewer: Would this be an appropriate place to detail what to do when the breaking issue is happening on stable due to our own code and when we'd need to roll back to a previous, working version of stable? I know @lizpearl has regressed our staging/stable version in the past to address bugs in staging/stable and has more insight on that

Reviewer 2: Yes, we should mention this, though the individual steps to take perhaps should go elsewhere.

Author: I'd like to include a reference, but agree the steps should be elsewhere, and we may want to distinguish something that requires this plan versus a wider variety of issues that might necessitate a rollback (ie, we've rolled back for things that don't generate critical errors, but are easier to remedy with a rollback). The rollback is one tool for an incident.

Author: I want to sync up on how to include this, so I'm going to make a new issue for it, just so we can get this initial version published. Then we can iterate!

# Downtime & Incident Management Runbook

> For the .gov registry and registrar, an incident is defined as an event that impacts the security, availability, or integrity of the registrar that isn’t expected. Some examples include:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For the .gov registry and registrar, an incident is defined as an event that impacts the confidentiality, availability, or integrity of the registrar that isn’t expected. Some examples include:
```

> * Get.gov or manage.get.gov is completely offline;  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* get.gov or manage.get.gov are completely offline/unavailable to users;  
```

Author: For capitalizing get.gov - while our [content guide](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1U-TRx3ecCFZ-qtrCk7EYmF_nmfKh6kd7FV95Pa4iWeM/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.h9ez24tkuqva) doesn't address get.gov separately from .gov as a brand, one of the exceptions to leaving it lowercase is when there's a bulleted list and all of the other bullets are capitalized. Happy to make the other changes here. @h-m-f-t  cc: @Katherine-MN  for content confirmation!

Reviewer 3: Yeah, ideally, the bullets should follow the same capitalization pattern. In this case, I'd suggest revising so get.gov isn't at the beginning of the sentence. Could we say: 

> When get.gov or manage.get.gov are completely offline

Author: Updated. Good idea to just...move it and avoid the weirdness.

Reviewer 2: Stay weird .gov

> * The application is returning errors unexpectedly; or  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The application is returning critical errors unexpectedly; or  
```

* Data is able to be accessed by someone other than the intended audience.

> This runbook is primarily designed to cover the process for incidents that are a result of critical bugs in the .gov codebase, or an outage with one of our providers, in contrast with intentional or malicious actions against the application or providers. However, since the root cause or source of a problem may not be immediately evident, following these procedures will assist in ensuring the root cause is identified and mitigated appropriately.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This runbook is primarily designed to cover our response for incidents that are a result of critical bugs in the .gov codebase or an outage with one of our providers. However, since the root cause of a problem may not be immediately evident, following these procedures will assist in identifying and mitigating the issue, even if that source is an intentional, malign actor.
```

> Certain types of incidents, such as when the root cause is determined to be malware, ransomware, denial of service, and the like, may require additional measures and assessment, including further coordination with CISA incident response or privacy offices. Those are not detailed in this runbook.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Certain types of incidents, such as when the root cause is determined to be malware, ransomware, denial of service, and the like, may require additional measures and assessment, including coordination with CISA's incident response or privacy offices. Those are not detailed in this runbook.
```

## Availability and developer support

> The .gov team includes contractor developers. For incident management purposes, the following should be noted:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The .gov team's availability spans normal business hours for CONUS. The team also includes contract developers. 

For incident management purposes, the following should be noted:
```

> * When an incident occurs outside of business hours, engineer support is on a volunteer basis; answering a call does not necessarily mean that the engineer is available to assist throughout the incident.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
I don't think this bullet says anything different/better than the following bullet.

   6. Consider if it is appropriate to directly notify users via emails  
2. Continue to monitor incident actions and communications to add to the timeline in the incident response document.

#### On issue resolution

1. Update the following to provide notice that the incident is resolved  
   1. In \#dotgov-announce Slack channel  
   2. IRT  
   3. Analysts  
   4. Banner(s) removed  
   5. Any others that were notified inside, outside CISA  
2. Anyone on the .gov team who participated in the incident should, as soon as practicable, add timeline events, logs, or other information about the incident to the incident report document, while the information is fresh.  
3. If the issue is resolved, but cause unknown, developers should investigate as the highest priority task.  
4. Program team or incident lead will schedule an hour-long retrospective session for the team. The retro is an opportunity to do the following:  
   1. Review the timeline of the incident and ensure it’s accurate  
   2. Identify anything that contributed to the incident \- not just causes, but conditions that worked together to create the incident, and escalate to the severity it was  

>    3. Identify anything that helped mitigate impacts of the incident, if any  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   3. Identify anything that helped mitigate impacts of the incident
```

   4. Review what we learned, and any risks that were uncovered  

>    5. Propose and agree on follow-up actions, including necessary GitHub issues, and owners for completion of follow-up activities

Reviewer: Should GitHub issues also link any relevant slack comms for easier context access?

Author: @erinysong  Yes, I think so! Do you think that needs to be explicit? Our issues typically include Slack links for context when it's relevant, but happy to add some detail here if that is useful to be explicit about.

Reviewer: yeah! hm I mostly thought of it since @abe-alam-ecs mentioned it's easy for info to get lost in between slack, github, and google docs so maybe explicitly saying incident tickets should link any discussion slack threads would be good to mention?

Reviewer: hm you're right on the slack links for context section 🤔  I noticed sometimes that section doesn't get filled and wonder if it's because it's at the bottom of our template (which makes sense for issues where slack discussion usually does just give additional context of maybe a couple thread comments vs. incident threads that usually go for a lot longer)

Author: I'm going to actually table this, and think through how we might do better cross-linking _in general_ and not just for incident-related follow-up tickets! I tried to think through how to included it here, but it felt a little awkward. BUT, the dashboard for tracking an incident (the Google Doc) does have hints and places to add Slack links and references and so can end up being a canonical source to point to.

> After retrospective, the program team coordinates to finalize the Incident Report using the template in the incident report document. The incident report is a consolidated narrative, timeline, and assessment of the incident to share internally. The program team will also determine if any external notifications are warranted, such as to Users, within CISA, published to get.gov, etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After retrospective, the program team coordinates to finalize the Incident Report using the template in the incident report document. The incident report is a consolidated narrative, timeline, and assessment of the incident to share internally. The program team will also determine if any external notifications are warranted, such as emails to users, published to get.gov, etc.
```
